# What is ReactJS?
ReactJS is an open-source, component based front end library responsible only for the view layer of the application. It was created by Jordan Walke, who was a software engineer at Facebook. It was initially developed and maintained by Facebook and was later used in its products like WhatsApp & Instagram. Facebook developed ReactJS in 2011 in its newsfeed section, but it was released to the public in the month of May 2013.

React is a JavaScript library for building composable user interfaces. This means that we can build a user interface by composing items called components. A component is an element that contributes to building a user interface. It could be a textbox, a button, a whole form, a group of other components, and so on. Even the entire application's user interface is a component. So, React encourages the creation of components to build a user interface; it's even better if these components are reusable.

Since the library deals with user interfaces, you may wonder which presentational design patterns React was inspired by: Model-ViewController, Model-View-Presenter, Model-View-ViewModel, or something else. React is not bound to a specific presentational pattern. React implements the View part of the most common patterns, leaving developers free to choose the best approach to implement the model, the presenter, and everything else they need to build their application. This
aspect is important, since it allows us to classify it as a library, not as a framework; therefore, comparisons with frameworks such as Angular may throw up some inconsistencies.

The most powerful thing about React is that can be used in the client, server, mobile applications, and even VR applications.

Companies such as Airbnb, Microsoft, Netflix, Disney, Dropbox, Twitter, PayPal, Salesforce, Tesla, and Uber are extensively using React in their projects.

# React Developer Tools
There are several developer tools that can be installed as browser extensions or addons that you may find useful as well:
- i) **react-detector** - react-detector is a Chrome extension that lets you know which websites are using
React and which are not.
- ii) **show-me-the-react** - This is another tool, available for Firefox and Chrome, that detects React as you
browse the internet.
- iii) **React developer tools** - This is a plugin that can extend the functionality of the browser’s developer tools.
It creates a new tab in the developer tools where you can view React elements. If you prefer Chrome, you can install it as an extension; you can also install it as an add-on for Firefox.

# Installation of React
Fortunately, we can use create-react-app, a command-line interface (CLI) tool that allows us to set up a React-based application without needing to configure any of the aforementioned tools. It is based on Node.js and provides commands to set up and modify a React application in an immediate way.

In order to install create-react-app, you need Node.js installed on your machine. You can install the CLI by typing the following command in a console window: 
```npm install -g create-react-app```

After installation, you can verify whether it is properly installed by typing the following command:
```create-react-app --version```
If all is OK, the installed version of create-react-app will be shown.

#Creating Your First React Application
Let's create our first React application by typing the following command in a console window:
```create-react-app hello-react```

This command tells create-react-app to set up all of the prerequisites for a React-based application named hello-react. The creation process may take several minutes, since it has to download the npm packages needed for the project.

Let's take a look at the files generated by create-react-app, so that we can get an understanding of the structure of a React-based application. We will find these files and folders inside of the HELLO-REACT folder:
> In the root folder, we can see a README.md file, the package.json file, and
the .gitignore file.
- **README.md** :  The README document contains references to all you need to start building a React-based application. It is written in Markdown format, and you can integrate or overwrite it with your own documentation.
- **package.json** : The package.json file contains information about the project, such as the name, the version, and so on, and references to all the npm packages used by the current project. This is a Node.js asset that allows you to download
the required packages when copying the project to another machine. It also contains the definitions of scripts that allow us to manage the project itself.
- **.gitignore** : The .gitignore file is a hidden file in Unix-based systems, and it allows us to track which file(s) to ignore when using Git as a version control system. The create-react-app tool added this file because nowadays, it is essential to have a project under version control. It suggests Git, since it is one of the most popular version control systems.
> **node_modules** : It contains the React library and any other third party libraries needed.
> The public folder contains the static parts of our application:
- **favicon** : This is the icon shown in the browser's address bar and is used for bookmarks.
- **index.html:** : This is the HTML page containing the reference to our React code and providing a context to React rendering.
- **manifest.json:** : This is a configuration file containing metadata according to the Progressive Web Apps (PWA) criteria.

In particular, the index.html file is the starting point of our application. Let'stake a look at it so that we can understand what's special about it:
```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1,
shrink-to-fit=no">
<meta name="theme-color" content="#000000">
<link rel="manifest" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/manifest.json">
...
<title>React App</title>
</head>
<body>
<noscript>
You need to enable JavaScript to run this app.
</noscript>
<div id="root"></div>
...
</html>
```
As we can see, it is a standard HTML page; however, a few things should be noted. First of all, we see a link to the manifest.json file:
```html 
<link rel="manifest" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/manifest.json">
```
This manifest contains metadata for configuring our app as a PWA.

The second thing we notice is the %PUBLIC_URL% placeholder in both link references:
```html
<link rel="manifest" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/manifest.json">
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/favicon.ico">
```
This placeholder will be replaced with the actual URL of the public folder during the build process.

```html 
<div id="root"></div>
```
The body of the HTML page contains an empty div with a root identifier. This is an important item for the correct setup of our React application

The build process will be responsible for adding the required scripts to the body. We can add any other required items to the HTML page, such as meta tags, web fonts, and so on. However, remember that files referenced inside the HTML markup should be put in the public folder. The node_modules folder contains the npm packages used by the project. Usually, you don't need to directly manage these files.

> The most important folder for developing our application is the src folder. It contains the basic files, with the code that we can modify for our purposes. In particular, we will find the following files:
- **index.js** : Contains the starting point of our application.
- **index.css** : Stores the base styling for our application.
- **App.js** : Contains the definition of the main component of the sample application.
- **App.css** : Contains the styling of the App component.
- **logo.svg** : This is the React logo.
- **App.test.js** : Stores the basic unit test involving the App component.
- **registerServiceWorker.js** : Contains the code to register the service worker in order to allow offline behavior, as per the PWA requirements

>The first command we will cover is ```npm start```. This command starts a development web server accepting requests at ```http://localhost:3000```.

# Features of React JS
- **React JS makes the process of writing components smoother** : React can be used without JSX, but using it with JSX makes it work elegantly. What is more, it can work with HTML making subcomponent working smoothly. This combination of JSX and React actually makes the efficiency of the source simpler and clearer.
- **React JS increases efficiency and makes maintenance easier** : React JS can solve the problem of updates, that is why, Facebook employs it to re-use system components, which is one of the unique features of React JS according to developers.
- **React JS provides an ideal solution to high-load application** : React offers an amazing solution to the common problem that comes with the apps that are built with the high-load application. Such heavy applications negatively affect apps performance. Even latest engines come across bottlenecks. In order to solve this problem, Facebook has come up with Virtual DOM (document object model) and is getting rid of this problem by using React JS. So now companies are getting better user experience and better app performance.
- **React ensures stable code** : React guarantees code stability of better app performance by using only downward data flow. When it comes to changing an object, the developers only modify its state and make changes thereby some specific components are updated which then allow better stability and efficient app performance.
- **React enhances SEO performance** : React increases the performance of SEO as it deals with search engine failure to read JavaScript high loaded application apps. It can smoothly run on the server by enabling the browser to work as a regular webpage.
- **React JS comes with useful developer tools** : React JS can provide coverage with its debugging and design tools ensuring efficient performance. Its developer tools are available as a browser extension for both Firefox and Chrome.
- **React JS is ideal for mobile app development** : React JS facilitates the transition process in both web and mobile application development by following the same design patterns. React and JavaScript integration will enable you to build rich UI for native apps supported by iOS and Android platforms. React Native developers are convinced of its portability, real-time reload, ability to reuse components, modular architecture and generous ecosystem. When it comes to using React Native, some frequently used apps such as Skype, Airbnb, WalMart and Tesla employ React Native. Moreover, Instagram and Facebook are other widely used social websites that employ React Native.
- **React JS is easy to comprehend and learn** : It ought to be remembered that React JS consist of next level tools in JavaScript. If you have skills in CSS and HTML and feel comfortable with using JavaScript, then learning React JS will become easier. Learning this unique JS library will enable you to take your web applications to a more advanced level.
- **React JS has the backing of a strong community of experts** : React JS has the support of Instagram and Facebook teams as well as external experts whose numbers according to one estimate is more than 1100 contributors. Moreover, users can also ask questions on forums like Reactflux Chart, Discussion forum etc. For expanding knowledge, instructor-led learning of React JS is ideal.
- **React is employed by thousands of International companies as well as advanced startups** : Thousands of International corporations are using React JS for creating their sites, apps and internal project, which speaks volumes of the amazing utility of React JS. Here are some examples of the International companies that use React Native: Walmart Labs, Airbnb, Baidu Mobile, Bloomberg, Delivery.com Go Daddy, Gyroscope etc. More sites such as Netflix, BBC, Dropbox, IMDb, Coursera, PayPal, Chrysler, Dailymotion, American Express, Khan Academy, New York Times and much more uses React JS.

# Pros and cons of ReactJS
> Pros of ReactJS
- ReactJS uses virtual DOM that makes the user experience better. It also makes the developer’s job less complex.
- JSX is used in ReactJS which is very simple and easy to learn. 
- There is no need for separate files for logic and markup in ReactJS.
- ReactJS is an open-source library that is maintained by Facebook. It is a constantly developing library.
- The one-data binding makes the code very stable.
- ReactJS also provides a mobile solution that is known as React Native.
- ReactJS is faster for rendering as compared to other web frameworks.
- Conditional statements in ReactJS are very helpful.
- It is SEO friendly. 
- It has a great developer’s toolkit.
> Cons of ReactJS
- It needs additional libraries for routing, state management, and API interaction.
- ReactJS is a large size library.
- The pace of development is very high. 
- ReactJS only covers the UI part, nothing else.
- Because of a very high pace of development, ReactJS’s documentation is poorly maintained.

# ReactJS vs Angular
- ReactJS is a library while AngularJS is a framework.
- ReactJS is developed by Facebook and AngularJS is developed by Google.
- JSX is used in ReactJS. Typescript is used in AngularJS.
- There is no concept of virtual DOM in AngularJS.
- In reactJS, one-way data binding is used. In AngularJS, two-way data binding is used.
There are a few advantages of AngularJS over ReactJS. AngularJS is a full-fledged framework that can solely be used for developing web applications. ReactJS always need additional libraries for routing, API interaction, etc. There is two-way data binding in AngularJS that is excellent while passing data through components. That does not mean the ReactJS’s one-way data binding is not good. The two-way data binding is always a better option. AngularJS uses typescript which is a superset of javascript. Typescript is a complex language and it is a bit difficult to master as compared to JSX. But typescript provides many additional functions like object-based programming. ReactJS is better than AngularJS in rendering data. There is no virtual DOM in AngularJS. That means while DOM manipulation, the whole of the original DOM is updated which makes it very slow. In JSX we write, both the logic and markup in one file, but in AngularJS, we have to use separate files. This makes coding in AngularJS very complex.

I found better comparision on https://www.javatpoint.com/reactjs-vs-angularjs

# React JSX
JSX stands for JavaScript XML. JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement()  and/or appendChild() methods.

Facebook’s React team released JSX when they released React to provide a concise syntax for creating complex DOM trees with attributes. They also hoped to make React more readable, like HTML and XML.

In JSX, an element’s type is specified with a tag. The tag’s attributes represent the properties. The element’s children can be added between the opening and closing tags.

Because JSX is JavaScript, we can't use JavaScript reserved words. This includes words like class and for.

As we have already seen that, all of the React components have a render function. The render function specifies the HTML output of a React component. JSX(JavaScript Extension), is a React extension which allows writing JavaScript code that looks like HTML. In other words, JSX is an HTML-like syntax used by React that extends ECMAScript so that HTML-like syntax can co-exist with JavaScript/React code. The syntax is used by preprocessors (i.e., transpilers like babel) to transform HTML-like syntax into standard JavaScript objects that a JavaScript engine will parse.

JSX provides you to write HTML/XML-like structures (e.g., DOM-like tree structures) in the same file where you write JavaScript code, then preprocessor will transform these expressions into actual JavaScript code. Just like XML/HTML, JSX tags have a tag name, attributes, and children.

> Example :
JSX File
```html 
<div>Hello Rajesh</div>  
```
Corresponding Output
```javascript
React.createElement("div", null, "Hello Rajesh");  
```
The above line creates a react element and passing three arguments inside where the first is the name of the element which is div, second is the attributes passed in the div tag, and last is the content you pass which is the "Hello Rajesh."


